just as our pet fish can detect water
currents our favorite pet birds can
sense the movements of air a budgerigar
responds to surrounding air currents by
adjusting and controlling and flight
[Music]
nerve endings at the base of our
feathers continually feedback the
information she needs
[Music]
in this way she detects and avoids
turbulent air
[Music]
and seeks out rising currents by sensing
the air she maintains flight efficiency
and budgies have yet another sensory
secret in their courtship good looks are
everything but after her flight she's
too occupied in preening to care but her
admirer has ways to get himself noticed
she sees more subtleties of color than
we can and she detects ultraviolet to a
color invisible to us under UV his
plumage takes on a very different look
the yellow pigments in his crown and
cheeks absorb UV and the effect is
stunning but unless she looks it's all
in vain he flops up his feathers to show
off his true colors but she still gives
him the cold shoulder it seems every
relationship needs a nudge sometimes
no he has a retention females prefer
males that really shine the more his
plumage absorbs UV sitter and healthy
are here she's impressed and invites him
to premium the budgie sensory world
continues under our radar as it does
with so many of our parents
[Music]